conf/README.md, before:

## Creating/editing templates

1. [How to add a new object template](#create-a-new-object-template)
2. [How to extend an existing object one](#extend-an-existing-object-template)
3. [How to replace an existing one](#replace-an-existing-object-template)

You can either read [ONTAP's documentation](https://mysupport.netapp.com/documentation/productlibrary/index.html?productID=60427) or use Harvest's `zapi` tool to explore available APIs and metrics on your cluster. Examples:

```sh
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show apis
  # will print list of apis that are available
  # usually apis with the "get-iter" suffix can provide useful metrics
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show attrs --api volume-get-iter
  # will print the attribute tree of the API
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show data --api volume-get-iter
  # will print raw data of the API attribute tree
```

(Replace `<poller>` with the name of a poller that can connect to an ONTAP system.)

This document scope is on two kind of template yamls as below. [Collector templates](#Collector-templates)  and [Object templates](#Object-templates)

## Collector templates

By default, Harvest reads from `conf/zapi/default.yaml` (shipped with harvest) and `conf/zapi/custom.yaml` (used to extend `conf/zapi/default.yaml`). 
You can define the configuration file of the collector. If no configuration file is specified, the default configuration file (`conf/zapiperf/default.yaml`) will be used and if the file `conf/zapiperf/custom.yaml` is present, it will be merged to the default one. When you specify your own collector configuration file, it can have any name. Your custom template will not be merged, but instead will replace any existing template with the same name.

Examples:
1. Define a poller that will run the ZapiPerf collector using its default configuration file:

```yaml
Pollers:
  jamaica:  # name of the poller
    datacenter: munich
    addr: 10.10.10.10
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: harvest
    password: pass
    collectors:
      - Zapi # will use conf/zapi/default.yaml and optionally merge with conf/zapi/custom.yaml
```

2. Define a poller that will run the Zapi collector using a custom configuration file:

```yaml
Pollers:
  jamaica:  # name of the poller
    addr: 10.10.10.10
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: harvest
    password: pass
    collectors:
      - ZapiPerf:
        - limited.yaml # will use conf/zapi/limited.yaml
        # if more templates are added, they will be merged
```

### Object Templates

Object templates (Example: `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml`) describe what to collect and export. These templates are used by collectors to gather the metrics and send to your time-series db.

Object templates are made up of the following parts:
1. the name of the resource to collect
2. the ZAPI or REST query used to collect the object
3. a list of object counters to collect and how to export them

Instead of editing one of the existing templates, it's better to extend existing templates. That way, your custom template will not be overwritten when upgrading Harvest. For example, if you want to extend `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/aggr.yaml`, first create a copy (e.g., `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_aggr.yaml`), then add these lines to `conf/zapi/custom.yaml`:

```yaml
objects:
  Aggregate: custom_aggr.yaml
```

After restarting your pollers, `aggr.yaml` and `custom_aggr.yaml` will be merged.

#### Create a new object template

In this example, Let's imagine that Harvest didn't already collect environment sensor data . If we want to collect sensor metrics from the `environment-sensors-get-iter` API. These are the steps that we need to follow:

Create the file `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/sensor.yaml` (optionally replace `9.8.0` with the version of your ONTAP refer [Template Selection Algorithm](#Template-Selection-Algorithm)). Add following content:

```yaml
name:                      Sensor
query:                     environment-sensors-get-iter
object:                    sensor

counters:
  environment-sensors-info:
    - critical-high-threshold    => critical_high
    - critical-low-threshold     => critical_low
    - ^discrete-sensor-state     => discrete_state
    - ^discrete-sensor-value     => discrete_value
    - ^^node-name                => node
    - ^^sensor-name              => sensor
    - ^sensor-type               => type
    - ^threshold-sensor-state    => threshold_state
    - threshold-sensor-value     => threshold_value
    - ^value-units               => unit
    - ^warning-high-threshold    => warning_high
    - ^warning-low-threshold     => warning_low

export_options:
  include_all_labels: true
```

#### Enable the new object template

To enable the new objectTemplate, create `conf/zapi/custom.yaml` with the lines shown below.

```yaml
objects:
  Sensor: sensor.yaml
```
The Sensor key used in the custom.yaml must match the name defined in our sensor.yaml file. That's what connects this object with the template. In the future, if you add more object Templates, you can add those in this same file.

#### Extend an existing object template

In this example, we want to extend one of the existing object templates that Harvest ships with, `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml` and collect additional information as below: 

Use Case:
1. Add `client_timeout` (You want to change default timeout of a lun zapi to splve https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/wiki/Troubleshooting-Harvest#client_timeout)
2. Add additional counters `multiprotocol-type`, `application`
3. Configure a new `value_to_num` plugin (Add a new counter which is calculated through plugins)
4. Add `application` to instance_keys (Add labels to metrics)

Let's assume the existing template is located at conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml and contains this (so we don't have to change)

```yaml
name:                       Lun
query:                      lun-get-iter
object:                     lun

counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^node
    - ^path
    - ^qtree
    - size
    - size-used
    - ^state
    - ^^uuid
    - ^volume
    - ^vserver => svm

plugins:
  - LabelAgent:
    value_mapping:
      - status state online `1`
    # metric label zapi_value rest_value `default_value`
    value_to_num:
      - new_status state online online `0`
    # path is something like "/vol/vol_georg_fcp401/lun401"
    # we only want lun name, which is 4th element
    split:
      - path `/` ,,,lun

export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - node
    - qtree
    - lun
    - volume
    - svm
  instance_labels:
    - state
 ```

To extend this template, create conf/zapi/custom.yaml if it doesn't already exist and add the lines shown below.

```yaml
objects:
  Lun: custom_lun.yaml
```

Create a new object template `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_lun.yaml` with the lines shown below.

```yaml
client_timeout: 300
counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^multiprotocol-type
    - ^application

plugins:
  - LabelAgent:
    value_to_num:
      - custom_status state online online `0`

export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - application
 ```

Harvest will merge your new template `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_lun.yaml` with the out-of-the-box `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml` one resulting in a combined template like this:
```yaml
name: Lun
query: lun-get-iter
object: lun
counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^node
    - ^path
    - ^qtree
    - size
    - size-used
    - ^state
    - ^^uuid
    - ^volume
    - ^vserver => svm
    - ^multiprotocol-type
    - ^application
plugins:
  LabelAgent:
    value_mapping:
      - status state online `1`
    value_to_num:
      - new_status state online online `0`
      - custom_status state online online `0`
    split:
      - path `/` ,,,lun
export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - node
    - qtree
    - lun
    - volume
    - svm
    - application
```

To help understand the merging process and resulting template, you can view the merged ....
```sh
bin/harvest doctor merge --template lun.yaml --with custom_lun.yaml
```

#### Replace an existing object template

You can only extend existing default template as explained in [How to extend an existing object one](#extend-an-existing-object-template). If you have any such use case, tell us through github issues/ slack.

#### Test your changes and restart pollers

Test your new `Sensor` template with a single poller like this:
```
./bin/harvest start <poller> --foreground --verbose --collectors Zapi --objects Sensor
```
Replace `<poller>` with the name of one of your ONTAP pollers.

Once you have confirmed that the new template works, restart any already running pollers that you want to pick up the new template(s).

### Check the metrics

If you are using the Prometheus exporter, you can scrape the poller's HTTP endpoint with curl or a web browser. E.g., my poller exports its data on port 15001. Adjust as needed for your exporter.
```
curl -s 'http://localhost:15001/metrics' | grep sensor_

sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="3664",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="P3.3V STBY",type="voltage",warning_low="3040",critical_low="2960",threshold_state="normal",unit="mV",warning_high="3568"} 3280
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="P1.2V STBY",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal",warning_high="1299",warning_low="1105",critical_low="1086",node="shopfloor-02",critical_high="1319",unit="mV"} 1193
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",unit="mV",critical_high="15810",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="P12V STBY",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal"} 11842
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="P12V STBY Curr",type="current",threshold_state="normal",unit="mA",critical_high="3182",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-02"} 748
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_low="1470",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="Sysfan2 F2 Speed",type="fan",threshold_state="normal",unit="RPM",warning_low="1560"} 2820
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="PSU2 Fan1 Speed",type="fan",threshold_state="normal",unit="RPM",warning_low="4600",critical_low="4500",node="shopfloor-01"} 6900
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="PSU1 InPwr Monitor",type="unknown",threshold_state="normal",unit="mW",node="shopfloor-01"} 132000
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="58",type="thermal",unit="C",warning_high="53",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-01",sensor="Bat Temp",threshold_state="normal",warning_low="5"} 24
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="9000",node="shopfloor-01",sensor="Bat Charge Volt",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal",unit="mV",warning_high="8900"} 8200
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="PSU1 InPwr Monitor",type="unknown",threshold_state="normal",unit="mW"} 132000
```

## Template Selection Algorithm

Harvest uses closest-matching algorithm to select templates to be used for a poller. The closest-matching algorithm means the same template will be used between multiple versions of ONTAP. Let's say, we are trying to find `lun.yaml` for `Zapi` collector for a cdot cluster.
Harvest will try to determine the closest ONTAP version directory inside conf/zapi/cdot/, returning the first that matches. 
A few examples are as follows.

1. ONTAP version: 9.8.1 and template directories 9.8.0, 9.8.1, 9.9.0, 10.10.10. Harvest will select directory 9.8.1
2. ONTAP version: 9.7.1 and template directories 9.8.0, 9.8.1, 9.9.0, 10.10.10. Harvest will select directory 9.8.0
3. ONTAP version: 9.9.2 and template directories 9.8.0, 9.8.1, 9.9.0, 10.10.10. Harvest will select directory 9.9.0
4. ONTAP version: 9.9.2 and template directories 9.8.0, 9.8.1, 9.9.0, 10.10.10. Harvest will select directory 11.11.11
5. ONTAP version: 9.10.2 and template directories 9.8.0, 9.8.1, 9.9.0, 9.10.1. Harvest will select directory 9.10.1

Commit message:

feat: Update Template Selection doc

conf/README.md, after:

## Creating/editing templates

1. [How to add a new object template](#create-a-new-object-template)
2. [How to extend an existing object one](#extend-an-existing-object-template)
3. [How to replace an existing one](#replace-an-existing-object-template)

You can either read [ONTAP's documentation](https://mysupport.netapp.com/documentation/productlibrary/index.html?productID=60427) or use Harvest's `zapi` tool to explore available APIs and metrics on your cluster. Examples:

```sh
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show apis
  # will print list of apis that are available
  # usually apis with the "get-iter" suffix can provide useful metrics
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show attrs --api volume-get-iter
  # will print the attribute tree of the API
$ harvest zapi --poller <poller> show data --api volume-get-iter
  # will print raw data of the API attribute tree
```

(Replace `<poller>` with the name of a poller that can connect to an ONTAP system.)

This document scope is on two kind of template yamls as below. [Collector templates](#Collector-templates)  and [Object templates](#Object-templates)

## Collector templates

By default, Harvest reads from `conf/zapi/default.yaml` (shipped with harvest) and `conf/zapi/custom.yaml` (used to extend `conf/zapi/default.yaml`). 
You can define the configuration file of the collector. If no configuration file is specified, the default configuration file (`conf/zapiperf/default.yaml`) will be used and if the file `conf/zapiperf/custom.yaml` is present, it will be merged to the default one. When you specify your own collector configuration file, it can have any name. Your custom template will not be merged, but instead will replace any existing template with the same name.

Examples:
1. Define a poller that will run the ZapiPerf collector using its default configuration file:

```yaml
Pollers:
  jamaica:  # name of the poller
    datacenter: munich
    addr: 10.10.10.10
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: harvest
    password: pass
    collectors:
      - Zapi # will use conf/zapi/default.yaml and optionally merge with conf/zapi/custom.yaml
```

2. Define a poller that will run the Zapi collector using a custom configuration file:

```yaml
Pollers:
  jamaica:  # name of the poller
    addr: 10.10.10.10
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: harvest
    password: pass
    collectors:
      - ZapiPerf:
        - limited.yaml # will use conf/zapi/limited.yaml
        # if more templates are added, they will be merged
```

### Object Templates

Object templates (Example: `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml`) describe what to collect and export. These templates are used by collectors to gather the metrics and send to your time-series db.

Object templates are made up of the following parts:
1. the name of the resource to collect
2. the ZAPI or REST query used to collect the object
3. a list of object counters to collect and how to export them

Instead of editing one of the existing templates, it's better to extend existing templates. That way, your custom template will not be overwritten when upgrading Harvest. For example, if you want to extend `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/aggr.yaml`, first create a copy (e.g., `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_aggr.yaml`), then add these lines to `conf/zapi/custom.yaml`:

```yaml
objects:
  Aggregate: custom_aggr.yaml
```

After restarting your pollers, `aggr.yaml` and `custom_aggr.yaml` will be merged.

#### Create a new object template

In this example, Let's imagine that Harvest didn't already collect environment sensor data . If we want to collect sensor metrics from the `environment-sensors-get-iter` API. These are the steps that we need to follow:

Create the file `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/sensor.yaml` (optionally replace `9.8.0` with the version of your ONTAP refer [Harvest Versioned Templates](#harvest-versioned-templates)). Add following content:

```yaml
name:                      Sensor
query:                     environment-sensors-get-iter
object:                    sensor

counters:
  environment-sensors-info:
    - critical-high-threshold    => critical_high
    - critical-low-threshold     => critical_low
    - ^discrete-sensor-state     => discrete_state
    - ^discrete-sensor-value     => discrete_value
    - ^^node-name                => node
    - ^^sensor-name              => sensor
    - ^sensor-type               => type
    - ^threshold-sensor-state    => threshold_state
    - threshold-sensor-value     => threshold_value
    - ^value-units               => unit
    - ^warning-high-threshold    => warning_high
    - ^warning-low-threshold     => warning_low

export_options:
  include_all_labels: true
```

#### Enable the new object template

To enable the new objectTemplate, create `conf/zapi/custom.yaml` with the lines shown below.

```yaml
objects:
  Sensor: sensor.yaml
```
The Sensor key used in the custom.yaml must match the name defined in our sensor.yaml file. That's what connects this object with the template. In the future, if you add more object Templates, you can add those in this same file.

#### Extend an existing object template

In this example, we want to extend one of the existing object templates that Harvest ships with, `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml` and collect additional information as below: 

Use Case:
1. Add `client_timeout` (You want to change default timeout of a lun zapi to splve https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/wiki/Troubleshooting-Harvest#client_timeout)
2. Add additional counters `multiprotocol-type`, `application`
3. Configure a new `value_to_num` plugin (Add a new counter which is calculated through plugins)
4. Add `application` to instance_keys (Add labels to metrics)

Let's assume the existing template is located at conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml and contains this (so we don't have to change)

```yaml
name:                       Lun
query:                      lun-get-iter
object:                     lun

counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^node
    - ^path
    - ^qtree
    - size
    - size-used
    - ^state
    - ^^uuid
    - ^volume
    - ^vserver => svm

plugins:
  - LabelAgent:
    value_mapping:
      - status state online `1`
    # metric label zapi_value rest_value `default_value`
    value_to_num:
      - new_status state online online `0`
    # path is something like "/vol/vol_georg_fcp401/lun401"
    # we only want lun name, which is 4th element
    split:
      - path `/` ,,,lun

export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - node
    - qtree
    - lun
    - volume
    - svm
  instance_labels:
    - state
 ```

To extend this template, create conf/zapi/custom.yaml if it doesn't already exist and add the lines shown below.

```yaml
objects:
  Lun: custom_lun.yaml
```

Create a new object template `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_lun.yaml` with the lines shown below.

```yaml
client_timeout: 300
counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^multiprotocol-type
    - ^application

plugins:
  - LabelAgent:
    value_to_num:
      - custom_status state online online `0`

export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - application
 ```

Harvest will merge your new template `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/custom_lun.yaml` with the out-of-the-box `conf/zapi/cdot/9.8.0/lun.yaml` one resulting in a combined template like this:
```yaml
name: Lun
query: lun-get-iter
object: lun
counters:
  lun-info:
    - ^node
    - ^path
    - ^qtree
    - size
    - size-used
    - ^state
    - ^^uuid
    - ^volume
    - ^vserver => svm
    - ^multiprotocol-type
    - ^application
plugins:
  LabelAgent:
    value_mapping:
      - status state online `1`
    value_to_num:
      - new_status state online online `0`
      - custom_status state online online `0`
    split:
      - path `/` ,,,lun
export_options:
  instance_keys:
    - node
    - qtree
    - lun
    - volume
    - svm
    - application
```

To help understand the merging process and resulting template, you can view the merged ....
```sh
bin/harvest doctor merge --template lun.yaml --with custom_lun.yaml
```

#### Replace an existing object template

You can only extend existing default template as explained in [How to extend an existing object one](#extend-an-existing-object-template). If you have any such use case, tell us through github issues/ slack.

#### Test your changes and restart pollers

Test your new `Sensor` template with a single poller like this:
```
./bin/harvest start <poller> --foreground --verbose --collectors Zapi --objects Sensor
```
Replace `<poller>` with the name of one of your ONTAP pollers.

Once you have confirmed that the new template works, restart any already running pollers that you want to pick up the new template(s).

### Check the metrics

If you are using the Prometheus exporter, you can scrape the poller's HTTP endpoint with curl or a web browser. E.g., my poller exports its data on port 15001. Adjust as needed for your exporter.
```
curl -s 'http://localhost:15001/metrics' | grep sensor_

sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="3664",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="P3.3V STBY",type="voltage",warning_low="3040",critical_low="2960",threshold_state="normal",unit="mV",warning_high="3568"} 3280
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="P1.2V STBY",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal",warning_high="1299",warning_low="1105",critical_low="1086",node="shopfloor-02",critical_high="1319",unit="mV"} 1193
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",unit="mV",critical_high="15810",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="P12V STBY",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal"} 11842
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="P12V STBY Curr",type="current",threshold_state="normal",unit="mA",critical_high="3182",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-02"} 748
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_low="1470",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="Sysfan2 F2 Speed",type="fan",threshold_state="normal",unit="RPM",warning_low="1560"} 2820
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="PSU2 Fan1 Speed",type="fan",threshold_state="normal",unit="RPM",warning_low="4600",critical_low="4500",node="shopfloor-01"} 6900
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",sensor="PSU1 InPwr Monitor",type="unknown",threshold_state="normal",unit="mW",node="shopfloor-01"} 132000
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="58",type="thermal",unit="C",warning_high="53",critical_low="0",node="shopfloor-01",sensor="Bat Temp",threshold_state="normal",warning_low="5"} 24
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",critical_high="9000",node="shopfloor-01",sensor="Bat Charge Volt",type="voltage",threshold_state="normal",unit="mV",warning_high="8900"} 8200
sensor_value{datacenter="WDRF",cluster="shopfloor",node="shopfloor-02",sensor="PSU1 InPwr Monitor",type="unknown",threshold_state="normal",unit="mW"} 132000
```

## Harvest Versioned Templates

Harvest ships with a set of versioned templates tailored for specific versions of ONTAP. At runtime, Harvest uses a BestFit heuristic to pick the most appropriate template. The BestFit heuristic compares the list of Harvest templates with the ONTAP version and selects the best match. There are versioned templates for the Zapi collector and a different set for the REST collector. Here's how it works, assume Harvest has these templated versions:

- 9.6.0
- 9.6.1
- 9.8.0
- 9.9.0
- 9.10.1

if you are monitoring a cluster at these versions, Harvest will select the indicated template:

- ONTAP version 9.4.1, Harvest will select the templates for 9.6.0
- ONTAP version 9.6.0, Harvest will select the templates for 9.6.0
- ONTAP version 9.7.X, Harvest will select the templates for 9.6.1
- ONTAP version  9.12, Harvest will select the templates for 9.10.1
