docker/README.md, before:

# Harvest and Containers

Harvest is container-ready and supports several deployment options:

- [Stand-up Prometheus, Grafana, and Harvest via Docker Compose](#harvest-grafana-prometheus-install). Choose this if you want to hit the ground running. Install, volume and network mounts automatically handled.
  
- [Poller-per-container model](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/tree/main/docker/onePollerPerContainer) that offers more flexibility in configuration. This deployment enables a broad range of orchestrators (Nomad, Mesosphere, Swarm, K8, etc.) since you pick-and-choose what gets built and how it's deployed, stronger familiarity with containers is recommended.

- If you prefer Ansible, David Blackwell created an [Ansible script](https://netapp.io/2021/05/21/monitor-all-of-your-ontap-clusters-with-harvest-easy-mode/) that stands up Harvest, Grafana, and Prometheus.

- Want to run Harvest on a Mac via [containerd and Racher Desktop](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/tree/main/docker/containerd)? We got you covered.

- [Local K8 Deployment](k8/README.md) via Kompose

# Harvest Grafana Prometheus Install

This is a quick way to install and get started with Harvest. Follow the four steps below to:

- Setup Harvest, Grafana, and Prometheus via Docker Compose
- Harvest dashboards are automatically imported and setup in Grafana with a Prometheus data source
- A separate poller container is created for each monitored cluster
- All pollers are automatically added as Prometheus scrape targets

### Requirements
- Docker: `20.10.0` or higher and compatible Docker Compose

## Download and untar

1. Download the latest version of [Harvest](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest#installation), untar, and cd into the harvest directory

## Setup your harvest.yml

2. Create a `harvest.yml` file with your cluster details, below is an example with annotated comments. Modify as needed for your scenario.

This config is using the Prometheus exporter [port_range](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/blob/main/cmd/exporters/prometheus/README.md#parameters) feature, so you don't have to manage the Prometheus exporter port mappings for each poller.

```
Exporters:
  prometheus1:
    exporter: Prometheus
    addr: 0.0.0.0
    port_range: 2000-2030  # <====== adjust to be greater than equal to the number of monitored clusters

Defaults:
  collectors:
    - Zapi
    - ZapiPerf
  use_insecure_tls: true   # <====== adjust as needed to enable/disable TLS checks 
  exporters:
    - prometheus1

Pollers:
  infinity:                # <====== add your cluster(s) here, they use the exporter defined three lines above
    datacenter: DC-01
    addr: 10.0.1.2
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: user
    password: 123#abc
  # next cluster ....  
```
   
## Generate a Docker compose for your Pollers

3. Generate a Docker compose file from your `harvest.yml`
   
```
bin/harvest generate docker full --output harvest-compose.yml
```

`generate docker full` does two things:
1. Creates a Docker compose file with a container for each Harvest poller defined in your `harvest.yml`
2. Creates a matching Prometheus service discovery file for each Harvest poller (located in `docker/prometheus/harvest_targets.yml`). Prometheus uses this file to scrape the Harvest pollers. 

## Start everything

Bring everything up :rocket:
   
```
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml up -d --remove-orphans
```

## Config and Using

The `prom-stack.yml` compose file creates a `frontend` and `backend` network. Prometheus and Grafana publish their admin ports on the front-end network and are routable to the local machine. By default, the Harvest pollers are part of the backend network and do not expose their Prometheus web end-points. If you want their end-points exposed, pass the `--port` flag to the `generate` sub-command in the [previous step](#generate-a-docker-compose-for-your-pollers), like so:

```
bin/harvest generate docker full --port --output harvest-compose.yml
```

### Grafana

After bringing up the `prom-stack.yml` compose file, you can access Grafana at `http://IP_OF_GRAFANA:3000`.

Default credentials - you'll be prompted to create a new password the first time you log in

```
username: admin
password: admin
```

### Prometheus

After bringing up the `prom-stack.yml` compose file, you can check Prometheus's list of targets at `http://IP_OF_PROMETHEUS:9090/targets`.

### Managing

#### Stop all containers

```
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml down
```

### Upgrade Harvest

To upgrade Harvest:

1. Download the latest `tar.gz` or packaged version and install it. 
This is needed since the new version may contain new templates, dashboards, or other files not included in the Docker image.
2. Check the release notes to see if there are new features or fixes in the `harvest docker generate` command you want to take advantage of.
If so, regenerate your Docker compose file(s).
3. Pull new images and restart your containers like so:

```
docker pull cr.netapp.io/harvest   # or if using Docker Hub: docker pull rahulguptajss/harvest
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml restart
```

Commit message:

docs: describe how to migrate historical Prometheus data generated be… (#1369)
* docs: describe how to migrate historical Prometheus data generated before `22.11`

* docs: describe how to migrate historical Prometheus data generated before `22.11`

docker/README.md, after:

# Harvest and Containers

Harvest is container-ready and supports several deployment options:

- [Stand-up Prometheus, Grafana, and Harvest via Docker Compose](#harvest-grafana-prometheus-install). Choose this if you want to hit the ground running. Install, volume and network mounts automatically handled.
  
- [Poller-per-container model](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/tree/main/docker/onePollerPerContainer) that offers more flexibility in configuration. This deployment enables a broad range of orchestrators (Nomad, Mesosphere, Swarm, K8, etc.) since you pick-and-choose what gets built and how it's deployed, stronger familiarity with containers is recommended.

- If you prefer Ansible, David Blackwell created an [Ansible script](https://netapp.io/2021/05/21/monitor-all-of-your-ontap-clusters-with-harvest-easy-mode/) that stands up Harvest, Grafana, and Prometheus.

- Want to run Harvest on a Mac via [containerd and Racher Desktop](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/tree/main/docker/containerd)? We got you covered.

- [Local K8 Deployment](k8/README.md) via Kompose

# Harvest Grafana Prometheus Install

This is a quick way to install and get started with Harvest. Follow the four steps below to:

- Setup Harvest, Grafana, and Prometheus via Docker Compose
- Harvest dashboards are automatically imported and setup in Grafana with a Prometheus data source
- A separate poller container is created for each monitored cluster
- All pollers are automatically added as Prometheus scrape targets

### Requirements
- Docker: `20.10.0` or higher and compatible Docker Compose

## Download and untar

1. Download the latest version of [Harvest](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest#installation), untar, and cd into the harvest directory

## Setup your harvest.yml

2. Create a `harvest.yml` file with your cluster details, below is an example with annotated comments. Modify as needed for your scenario.

This config is using the Prometheus exporter [port_range](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/blob/main/cmd/exporters/prometheus/README.md#parameters) feature, so you don't have to manage the Prometheus exporter port mappings for each poller.

```
Exporters:
  prometheus1:
    exporter: Prometheus
    addr: 0.0.0.0
    port_range: 2000-2030  # <====== adjust to be greater than equal to the number of monitored clusters

Defaults:
  collectors:
    - Zapi
    - ZapiPerf
  use_insecure_tls: true   # <====== adjust as needed to enable/disable TLS checks 
  exporters:
    - prometheus1

Pollers:
  infinity:                # <====== add your cluster(s) here, they use the exporter defined three lines above
    datacenter: DC-01
    addr: 10.0.1.2
    auth_style: basic_auth
    username: user
    password: 123#abc
  # next cluster ....  
```
   
## Generate a Docker compose for your Pollers

3. Generate a Docker compose file from your `harvest.yml`
   
```
bin/harvest generate docker full --output harvest-compose.yml
```

`generate docker full` does two things:
1. Creates a Docker compose file with a container for each Harvest poller defined in your `harvest.yml`
2. Creates a matching Prometheus service discovery file for each Harvest poller (located in `docker/prometheus/harvest_targets.yml`). Prometheus uses this file to scrape the Harvest pollers. 

## Start everything

Bring everything up :rocket:
   
```
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml up -d --remove-orphans
```

## Config and Using

The `prom-stack.yml` compose file creates a `frontend` and `backend` network. Prometheus and Grafana publish their admin ports on the front-end network and are routable to the local machine. By default, the Harvest pollers are part of the backend network and do not expose their Prometheus web end-points. If you want their end-points exposed, pass the `--port` flag to the `generate` sub-command in the [previous step](#generate-a-docker-compose-for-your-pollers), like so:

```
bin/harvest generate docker full --port --output harvest-compose.yml
```

### Grafana

After bringing up the `prom-stack.yml` compose file, you can access Grafana at `http://IP_OF_GRAFANA:3000`.

Default credentials - you'll be prompted to create a new password the first time you log in

```
username: admin
password: admin
```

### Prometheus

After bringing up the `prom-stack.yml` compose file, you can check Prometheus's list of targets at `http://IP_OF_PROMETHEUS:9090/targets`.

### Managing

#### Stop all containers

```
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml down
```

### Upgrade Harvest

> Note: If you want to keep your historical Prometheus data, and you set up your Docker Compose workflow before Harvest `22.11`, please read how to [migrate your Prometheus volume](https://github.com/NetApp/harvest/blob/main/docs/MigratePrometheusDocker.md) before continuing with the upgrade steps below.  

To upgrade Harvest:

1. Download the latest `tar.gz` or packaged version and install it. 
This is needed since the new version may contain new templates, dashboards, or other files not included in the Docker image.
 
2. Check the release notes to see if there are new features or fixes in the `harvest docker generate` command you want to take advantage of.
If so, regenerate your Docker compose file(s).
 
3. Pull new images and restart your containers like so:

```
docker pull cr.netapp.io/harvest   # or if using Docker Hub: docker pull rahulguptajss/harvest
docker-compose -f prom-stack.yml -f harvest-compose.yml restart
```
